Statement of Work and Schedule for Symantec 

ACE-based Monitoring Facility

The following is a 7 month project focused on developing a flexible and
generic monitoring facility consisting of monitoring points, which
represent:

* An underlying OS resource usage that can go up and down, e.g., CPU
  load, number of threads, memory usage, etc.

* Counters that store the usage of certain resources since the start
  of the application, e.g., number of bytes sent.

To minimize the chance of overflow, counters can be represented as 64
bit values.  The type of the counters will be a template parameter,
however, to make it easy to select large/small data sizes for the
counters.

The monitoring facility is designed to be general purpose, so it will
reside in ACE and can be used by applications, as well as other
middleware, such as TAO, TAO's ORB Services, CIAO, RACE, etc.  The
following tasks will be associated with this effort.

Task 1: Design the architecture and interface of the monitoring
facility.

The monitoring points and counters will be selectively enabled/disabled
at various levels of binding time (i.e., early or
late) and granularity (monitor points should be assigned to groups where
a full group can be enabled or disabled, for example OS resource points,
network points) to give admins/operators a high degree of control needed
to trade off logging completeness vs. runtime overhead. The earliest
binding time is enabling/disabling monitoring points during compilation.
When disabled, the monitoring facility will not incur any time/space
overhead.  The later binding times occur when monitoring points are
enabled during compilation, after which they will be controlled via
runtime mechanisms described in Task 2.

Schedule of Activities and Deliverables for Task 1: (1 month)

* Designing monitoring facility architecture: 2 weeks.

* Designing interfaces for monitoring facility: 1 week.

* Documenting the architecture and interfaces: 1 week.

Deliverables are the documented architecture and interfaces.

Task 2: Develop the run-time mechanisms of the monitoring facility.

Develop run-time mechanisms that will support:

* Reading and resetting the counters - The monitoring facility will be
  designed to read the current values of monitoring points at the
  requested of user code.

* Reporting the counters - The values of the counters can be reported
  via the ACE logging facility so that monitored information can be
  selectively logged to a wide range of output devices, including text
  files, displays, and databases.  As a result, the party that
  monitors the counters could run in the same process but could also
  run in another process or on another host.

* Running arbitrary code - It will be possible to associate arbitrary
  application code with a counter, which is run whenever the counter
  is incremented.  This code can be written in C++ and installed as
  callback.

* Trigger rules and constraint language - We will define trigger rules
  that can be specified when registering for certain conditions.
  These trigger rules will have the ability to push the counter when
  the rule validates to true. A flexible constraint language will be
  developed to indicate when a push will be done, which will provide
  as quasi "notification service" for monitoring points. This has to
  include timer functionality so that a rule can be define to check a
  value for example each 15 minutes and report it to another system
  and reset it automatically.

* Optional loading - An optional TAO library will be developed so that
  from a remote application the counters can be retrieved and
  modified, the library will also make it possible that when the
  trigger rules and constraint language is used the trigger will be
  send to the remote application.

Schedule of Activities and Deliverables for Task 2: (3 months)

* Develop mechanisms for reading, resetting, and reporting the
  counters: 3 weeks.

* Develop mechanisms for running arbitrary code: 3 weeks.

* Develop mechanisms for trigger rules and constraint language: 3
  weeks.

* Develop automated regression tests and running these tests: 3
  weeks

* Develop TAO library: 2 weeks

* Document the runtime mechanisms: 1 week.

Deliverables are code, test cases, and test results for run-time
monitoring facility mechanisms.

Task 3: Using the monitoring facility to instrument and evaluate TAO.

The monitoring facility will be used to instrument TAO, including the
ORB itself, as well as the TAO Notification Service.  Some instrumented
monitoring points will be:

* Threads and thread pool size
* (De)marshaling memory cache size
* Connection cache size
* Active object map size

These monitors could be used to observe objects/servants/services, POAs,
ORB core, etc. for signs of resource exhaustion.  Moreover, we will
rework the CosNotify from OCI to use the new ACE-based monitoring
facility (assuming it is merged into the DOC Group open-source TAO SVN
repository by then).  We will conduct extensive experiments to determine
how to optimize the performance and flexibility of the monitoring
facility based on its use in TAO.

Schedule of Activities and Deliverables for Task 3 (2 months)

* Instrument ORB and selected services based on input and use cases
  from Symantec: 3 weeks.

* Rework the OCI CosNotify service implementation to use the generic
  ACE-based monitoring facility: 1 week.

* Conduct experiments and feedback results to optimize monitoring
  facility: 2 weeks.

* Documenting the results of the instrumentation and experimentations:
  2 weeks.

Deliverables are code, test cases, and test results for integrating
monitoring facilities for TAO.

Schedule of Key Milestones

1. Contract Signing [Sept 15, 2007]:  30%

2. Identify Use Cases / Select Services for Monitoring (from Task3)
   Task 1 complete: documentation available [Oct 30, 2007]: 20%

3. Task 2 complete: code / test cases / tests results available
   and delivered to Symantec
   [Dec 30, 2007]: 15%

4. Notification Service instrumentation of Task 3 complete: code /
   test cases / test results available [Jan 30, 2008]: 15%

5. Task 3 complete: code / test cases / test results available.
   Code from all merged and available in DOC group release [March
   [March 15, 2008]: 20%
